## MLS-Player-GPS-Tracking

### This project, also in R, tasked me with finding out how many shots a certain player took during an MLS match, given only the GPS tracking data for all 22 players on the pitch and the ball. The data was split into rows for each “frame”, which is just an instance of recording all the positions. This happened every 0.04 seconds throughout the match. To accomplish my task, first I modified the data to make each row of the table I was given display the ball’s position at a certain time and the chosen player’s position at that same time. I then sorted the data by half to account for the player attacking a different goal in the 2nd half. After that, I found every instance in which the ball was within 1 yard of the player in both the X and Y directions concurrently, to find what I thought was every time that player was in possession of the ball. Next I filtered it down to all the instances in which the ball was within this radius in one frame, and out of it the next frame, to find each time the player passed/shot/etc the ball. I then found each instance within these cases in which, after leaving the player’s foot, the ball moved closer to the goal. At this point, I had narrowed down my search to 14 different cases, so I plotted each of the remaining sequences, and then examined them to determine which ones saw the ball directed at the goal. I was ultimately able to find 4 instances of what I thought were shots, with 3 of them being saved by the goalkeeper, and one of them being blocked by a defender.
